Tech & Rogue-

Big fan of your content for about a year now- you've helped those of us that provide build assistance in /r/buildapc out significantly with your benches and testing so we don't have to- as well as providing useful resources for us to point new builders toward. You and your family are doing an excellent job with this content creation thing, it's a huge undertaking- and I truly hope you keep it up!

I lead with this just to hopefully blunt the hit a bit: you're a bit off base on the situation here, and I just hope to get a few things in front of your (obviously learned) eyes. The big story here was less about the 12nm refresh of Picasso chips- the use case for the mid-tier offerings here speaks volumes to your channel's followers seeking a strong value prop for a deal in this vertical. The branding confusion potential aside (which we both agree is a serious issue in these spaces for consumers for all the major players on both sides of the chip table these days- AMD/Intel/Nvidia alike), the productivity-styled workloads wherein these chips fit is addressing a key market deficit in lacking low-power/thin-and-light options featuring not insignificant GPGPU acceleration capabilities in the Vega chips. The dichotomy between the competing i5/MX150 system you raised is that the MX150 on its own exists as a 25W chip that cuts significantly into the value of a highly-mobile system. The upper-middle tier systems like the Matebook D and Envy x360 the previous-gen Raven Ridge 'U' chips slotted into made for great mobile photo editing workstations (for example), or even lightweight emergency rendering rigs with GPU power to accelerate these tasks without the overhead of the MX150 or the significantly lacklustre power of an Intel Iris/HD graphics solution; in my opinion. I further don't think any of us expected AMD to cannibalize their 7nm production lines for this refresh to deliver stellar YOY gains in a market where they're barely representative, bordering on nonexistent: they need to convince OEMs (and by association, customers) that they're still breathing in the mobile space before OEM fab lines will be retooled to build out Ryzen Mobile products: Picasso is to Raven Ridge what Pinnacle Ridge is to Summit Ridge. The first gen (re)introduced AMD to the marketplace, the second is the iterative improvement so everyone knows they're still playing.

You did however miss what I believe was the most significant function of the AMD press release here considering the refresh was relatively expected: AMD committing to direct driver support for their mobile products within the Radeon software suite going forward, circumventing OEMS and delivering driver and software updates direct-to-customer. This was a major pain point among first-gen adopters leading to low product satisfaction and end-user frustrations. I'm sure we remember (to continue my analogy) the initial launch issues with Summit Ridge and the entire first-gen Zen stack that were ironed out in Pinnacle Ridge. This was one of the biggest takeaways, I believe; not that AMD is making mid-tier chips for their mid-tier/value oriented OEMs/SIs.

Finally- I was a little troubled by your insights on Excavator's cores (just like how we were both troubled to see Excavator ever again, in fairness) in Chromebooks. The intended positioning for those 28nm chips is almost certainly rooted in either fulfilling a contract to GloFlo or using existing stock; but also slots in rather perfectly for their intended use case. You came down pretty hard on Intel here too: those Celeron chips do this job in Chromebooks- and do it very, very well. Using older, low-power hardware in cut-down dies to reduce overhead and shipping them in a low demand system is precisely the kind of good behaviour we want to see from tech firms these days, I would think. In a consumable world where the response to 'it's old' is so often "just buy a new one, the old one goes to the landfill", re-purposing this old stock in this very sensible manner is good corporate behaviour from where I sit. Chromebooks are built to be a grand total of 4 things: usable, light, inexpensive, with long battery lives. Google certifies the hardware bearing the Chromebook name to meet their standards (for better or worse sometimes, admittedly) and critically offer a level of technological exposure in the places they're deployed that would be otherwise impossible on the budget; as Rogue mentioned- and interestingly as you guys mentioned (tangentially) in a stream before the holidays vis-a-vis the Amazon tablets vs an entry-level iPad for a child use case re: value.

As for the value of students learning on ChromeOS- I think we both know most of the world runs on SaaS now, especially when compared to when you and I were coming up through the ranks. Heck, I'm pretty sure most of our dev team works out of Visual Studio Cloud these days, even! A browser window is a portal to every service and software most offices could ever need, to say nothing of kids. To double down on the value prop argument: an iPad without a coherent filesystem or mass storage support or a Chromebook that'll accept a USB stick and let kids learn how to save files locally? Then we can tell them about how back in our day you saved files on a dozen 5 inch floppy disks, uphill both ways, and we liked it, dangit! :)

Hope I don't offend- this comes from a place of love. I know a lot of very impressionable viewers enjoy your content and find it incredibly insightful, as do I. I think a little bit of disagreement is the most sincere compliment I can offer!

Lastly- love that you're taking advantage of Rogue's relative inexperience in the field to serve as a socratic sounding board to aid in viewer education: that's a key function of you guys' content that makes it incredibly engaging to people I send your way, and further permits me to better educate end-users by seeing the lens through which their perceptions are filtered.

Thanks again for your time, Tech- I truly do love your stuff, and I look forward to becoming a regular member of the greater DealNation community when time permits (Q1 is a nightmare).

Best-